README.md, before:

# Awesome Productivity [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)
> A curated list of delightful productivity resources.

## Contents

- [Websites](#websites)
- [Books](#books)
- [Tools and Apps](#tools-and-apps)
  - [File Management](#file-management)
  - [Note Management](#note-management)
  - [Task Management](#task-management)
  - [Habit Trackers](#habit-trackers)
  - [Task Automation](#task-automation)
  - [Password Manager](#password-manager)
  - [Knowledge Management](#knowledge-management)
  - [Screen Capture](#screen-capture)

## Websites

- [12+ Tips and Tricks to Work Faster in Microsoft Outlook](https://lifehacker.com/12-tips-and-tricks-to-work-faster-in-microsoft-outlook-1540483009) - Tame your Outlook with these tips in order to get a little bit closer to the awesome _Inbox Zero_.
- [Advanced GTD with Remember The Milk](https://blog.rememberthemilk.com/post/116665489183/guest-post-advanced-gtd-with-remember-the-milk) - A tutorial on how to implement GTD with Remember the Milk.
- [Inbox Zero](https://www.43folders.com/izero) - Rigorous approach to email management aimed at keeping the inbox (almost) empty at all times.
- [Lifehacker](https://lifehacker.com/) - The go-to blog for tips, tricks, and downloads for getting things done.
- [Pomodoro Technique](http://pomodorotechnique.com/) - Slice your tasks in 25 minute packages and get more done in less time.
- [r/Productivity](https://www.reddit.com/r/productivity/) - Productivity subreddit.
- [Rid Your Desktop of Clutter with This Simple Trio of Icons](https://lifehacker.com/5901487/rid-your-desktop-of-clutter-with-this-simple-trio-of-icons) - A little trick that has been keeping my desktop clean for years now.
- [ShortLib](https://shortlib.netlify.app/) - Collection of hundreds of shortcuts for Windows, Mac and Linux.
- [The Bullet Journal](https://bulletjournal.com/) - A pen and paper method that turns a simple notebook into a highly efficient productivity tool.
- [Zen Habits](https://zenhabits.net/) - Blog by Leo Babauta with topics such as simplifying life.
- [Productive Fish](https://productive.fish/) - Useful articles on how to be more productive, study effectively and improve well-being.

## Books

- [Deep Work: Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted World](https://www.calnewport.com/books/deep-work/) - Deep work is the ability to focus without distraction on a cognitively demanding task.
- [Getting Things Done](https://gettingthingsdone.com/store/product.php?productid=17035&cat=3&page) - A very simple and efficient time-management method.
- [The 5 Choices](https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/The-5-Choices/Kory-Kogon/9781476711829) - An all around productivity methodology dealing with prioritization, scheduling, technology and energy management.

## Tools and Apps

### File Management

- [Box](https://www.box.com) - Very good cloud storage solution for business customers.
- [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com) - Simple, elegant, and versatile cloud storage solution.
- [Google Drive](https://www.google.ca/drive/) - Cloud storage solution deeply integrated in the Google ecosystem.
- [Mega](https://mega.nz/) - A very generous (50G from the get go) and highly secure cloud storage solution.
- [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com) - The self-hosted productivity platform that keeps you in control.
- [OneDrive](https://onedrive.live.com) - Best cloud storage solution for Windows users.
- [pCloud](https://www.pcloud.com/) - A cloud storage solution with a strong focus on security.
- [Clipboard](https://getclipboard.app) - Easy-to-use local solution for saving files, folders, or text like a scratchpad.

### Note Management

- [Evernote](https://evernote.com/) - Evernote can basically become your second brain and remember everything for you.
- [Google Keep](https://www.google.com/keep/) - A nice and simple note management system tightly integrated with Google products.
- [Inkdrop](https://www.inkdrop.info/) - A cross-platform note taking application for Markdown lovers.
- [Joplin](https://joplinapp.org/) - A note taking and to-do application with synchronization capabilities.
- [Notion](https://www.notion.so/) - An all-in-one very customizable workspace for notes, tasks, wikis and lists.
- [Yana](https://yana.js.org) - Powerful note-taking app with nested documents, full-text search, rich-text editor, code snippet editor and more.
- [OneNote](https://www.onenote.com/) - Very good note management solution, but best for Windows users.
- [Preserver](https://github.com/hsbalar/preserver) - Notes organizer desktop application based on Electron.
- [Simplenote](https://simplenote.com/) - Light, clean, and free. Simplenote is now available for iOS, Android, Mac, Windows, Linux, and the web.
- [Standard Notes](https://standardnotes.org/) - A simple and private notes application.
- [WorkFlowy](https://workflowy.com/) - Outlining application for nested bulleted lists.

### Task Management

- [Airtable](https://airtable.com/) - Mix of spreadsheet and database to help organize work.
- [Amazing Marvin](https://www.amazingmarvin.com/) - Marvin incorporates principles from behavioral psychology to help beat procrastination, feel in control and finish todo list.
- [Any.do](https://www.any.do/) - Simple interface, packed with features, currently the favorite to-do list manager at [Lifehacker](https://lifehacker.com/5924093/five-best-to-do-list-managers).
- [GitHub Projects](https://github.com/features/project-management/) - A lesser known feature of GitHub, makes it easy to tie your project management process to your code.
- [Hitask](https://hitask.com) - Easy Project and Task Management for Teams.
- [KanbanFlow](https://kanbanflow.com) - Kanban method task board with Pomodoro technique.
- [Microsoft To Do](https://todo.microsoft.com/tasks/) - Microsoft cloud-based task management application based on Wunderlist technology.
- [OmniFocus](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnifocus) - A Getting Things Done based task manager for macOS and iOS.
- [Paymo](https://www.paymoapp.com/) - Keep your team aligned and engaged. Manage tasks, create team schedules, track work time, and bill your clients from the same platform.
- [Pomolectron](https://github.com/amitmerchant1990/pomolectron) - A pomodoro app for your menubar/tray.
- [Remember the Milk](https://www.rememberthemilk.com) - Great at managing tags for to-dos and location based tasks.
- [Taskade](https://taskade.com) - Simple and collaborative task lists for teams.
- [Taskwarrior](https://taskwarrior.org/) - An open source command line task manager. Flexible, fast, efficient, and unobtrusive.
- [Timely](https://memory.ai/timely) - Automatic time tracking software. Get a flawless digital record of all project and team time, all without the hassle of manual timers and note taking.
- [Timing](https://timingapp.com/) - Automatic time and productivity tracking for Mac. Helps you stay on track with your work and ensures no billable hours get lost if you are billing hourly.
- [Tinido](https://tinido.com/) - A beautiful and simple task management app that can also give you insights by showing your completed tasks in a contribution graph similar to the one you find on your GitHub profile.
- [Todo.txt](http://todotxt.com/) - Tired of having complicated apps to organize your tasks? Todo.txt is a technique that uses a single `.txt` file to help you get the job done.
- [Todoist](https://todoist.com/) - Powerful and cross-platform productivity tool.
- [Topydo](https://github.com/topydo/topydo) - A powerful todo list application using the todo.txt format, positioned between todo.txt CLI and Taskwarrior.
- [Trello](https://trello.com) - Kanban method task board.
- [Tweek](https://tweek.so) - Super Simple To Do list and Weekly Task Management.
- [VivifyScrum](https://www.vivifyscrum.com) - Agile project management app for teams that deliver. Customizable Scrum and Kanban boards.
- [Bordio](https://bordio.com/) - Daily planner for managing tasks and events on one board.
- [OpenProject](https://www.openproject.org/) - An on premise open source project management solution that comes with a free community version as well as an enterprise version.

### Habit Trackers

- [Emoji Log](https://emojilog.rosano.ca) -  Calm, emoji-based tracker for arbitrary things that doesn't use streaks.
- [Everyday](https://everyday.app/) - Form new habits by doing things every day.
- [Habitica](https://habitica.com) - Complete your real life daily goals in a role play game (previously called _HabitRPG_).
- [HabitBull](https://www.habitbull.com/) - Premium habit tracker.
- [Loop Habit Tracker](https://github.com/iSoron/uhabits) - An Android app for creating and maintaining good habits.
- [Waka Time](https://wakatime.com/) -  Open source plugin for knowing exactly how long you spend coding.
- [Conjure](https://conjure.so) - Habits, goals and time tracking platform with rules engine, data layer, API, dashboards and more (Web, Desktop, iOS, Android).

### Task Automation

- [AutoIt](https://www.autoitscript.com/) - Small tool for Windows to automate the Windows GUI, but it can also be used for other purposes.
- [Awesome AutoHotKey](https://github.com/ahkscript/awesome-AutoHotkey) - AutoHotKey is a free, open-source macro-creation and automation software for Windows that allows users to automate repetitive tasks.
- [IFTTT](https://ifttt.com) - Allows you to create chains of conditional statements (called _recipes_) between web services in order to make the web work for you and boost your productivity.
- [n8n](https://n8n.io) - Open-source workflow automation for connecting web services with an option to self-host.
- [Qbserve](https://qotoqot.com/qbserve/) - Mac time tracking automation: freelance project tracking, timesheets, invoicing & real-time productivity feedback.
- [Parabola](https://parabola.io) - Drag and drop tool to build custom reports, workflows, and integrations to automate your manual processes.
- [Tasker](https://tasker.dinglisch.net/) - Android application that can perform context sensitive custom tasks (_e.g._ automatically turn on wifi when you arrive home).
- [Zapier](https://zapier.com/) - Automation tool that allows you to connect hundreds of web services and create automations between the processes.

### Password Manager

- [Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com) - A free, trusted password manager that can store, sync, and generate passwords online or through native apps.
- [KeePass](https://keepass.info/) - A free, open source, light-weight password manager with auto-type, browser and plugin support.
- [LastPass](https://lastpass.com) - A freemium password manager that stores encrypted passwords online.
- [NordPass](https://nordpass.com/) - A freemium password manager created by the team from NordVPN. Store unlimited passwords and access them from anywhere with apps on all platforms.

### Knowledge Management

- [Obsidian.md](https://obsidian.md/) - A knowledge base tool that works on local Markdown files. It allows you to create links between different notes.
- [Scribe](https://scribehow.com/) - Automatically create step-by-step guides for any process. Simply hit “record” and Scribe will generate a detailed guide complete with screenshots based on your actions, ready to share with colleagues, customers, and friends.
- [Logseq](https://logseq.com/) - Logseq is a privacy-first, open-source knowledge base that works on top of local plain-text Markdown and Org-mode files. Use it to write, organize and share your thoughts, keep your to-do list, and build your own digital garden.

### Screen Capture

- [ShareX](https://getsharex.com/) - Screen capture, file sharing and productivity tool.
- [Replayable](https://replayable.io) - Rewind your screen. Playback and share exactly what happened with Replayable's desktop replay buffer.
- [CleanShot](https://cleanshot.com/) - A premium tool for screen capturing and recording on MacOS, with built-in annotation and text recognition.

Commit message:

Added AI for Everyday IT
Hi,

Stjepan from Manning here. I thought this title might be a good match for your list. Thank you for considering it.

Best,

README.md, after:

# Awesome Productivity [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)
> A curated list of delightful productivity resources.

## Contents

- [Websites](#websites)
- [Books](#books)
- [Tools and Apps](#tools-and-apps)
  - [File Management](#file-management)
  - [Note Management](#note-management)
  - [Task Management](#task-management)
  - [Habit Trackers](#habit-trackers)
  - [Task Automation](#task-automation)
  - [Password Manager](#password-manager)
  - [Knowledge Management](#knowledge-management)
  - [Screen Capture](#screen-capture)

## Websites

- [12+ Tips and Tricks to Work Faster in Microsoft Outlook](https://lifehacker.com/12-tips-and-tricks-to-work-faster-in-microsoft-outlook-1540483009) - Tame your Outlook with these tips in order to get a little bit closer to the awesome _Inbox Zero_.
- [Advanced GTD with Remember The Milk](https://blog.rememberthemilk.com/post/116665489183/guest-post-advanced-gtd-with-remember-the-milk) - A tutorial on how to implement GTD with Remember the Milk.
- [Inbox Zero](https://www.43folders.com/izero) - Rigorous approach to email management aimed at keeping the inbox (almost) empty at all times.
- [Lifehacker](https://lifehacker.com/) - The go-to blog for tips, tricks, and downloads for getting things done.
- [Pomodoro Technique](http://pomodorotechnique.com/) - Slice your tasks in 25 minute packages and get more done in less time.
- [r/Productivity](https://www.reddit.com/r/productivity/) - Productivity subreddit.
- [Rid Your Desktop of Clutter with This Simple Trio of Icons](https://lifehacker.com/5901487/rid-your-desktop-of-clutter-with-this-simple-trio-of-icons) - A little trick that has been keeping my desktop clean for years now.
- [ShortLib](https://shortlib.netlify.app/) - Collection of hundreds of shortcuts for Windows, Mac and Linux.
- [The Bullet Journal](https://bulletjournal.com/) - A pen and paper method that turns a simple notebook into a highly efficient productivity tool.
- [Zen Habits](https://zenhabits.net/) - Blog by Leo Babauta with topics such as simplifying life.
- [Productive Fish](https://productive.fish/) - Useful articles on how to be more productive, study effectively and improve well-being.

## Books

- [AI for Everyday IT](https://www.manning.com/books/ai-for-everyday-it) - Learn how to automate dozens of your daily IT tasks with generative AI.
- [Deep Work: Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted World](https://www.calnewport.com/books/deep-work/) - Deep work is the ability to focus without distraction on a cognitively demanding task.
- [Getting Things Done](https://gettingthingsdone.com/store/product.php?productid=17035&cat=3&page) - A very simple and efficient time-management method.
- [The 5 Choices](https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/The-5-Choices/Kory-Kogon/9781476711829) - An all around productivity methodology dealing with prioritization, scheduling, technology and energy management.

## Tools and Apps

### File Management

- [Box](https://www.box.com) - Very good cloud storage solution for business customers.
- [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com) - Simple, elegant, and versatile cloud storage solution.
- [Google Drive](https://www.google.ca/drive/) - Cloud storage solution deeply integrated in the Google ecosystem.
- [Mega](https://mega.nz/) - A very generous (50G from the get go) and highly secure cloud storage solution.
- [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com) - The self-hosted productivity platform that keeps you in control.
- [OneDrive](https://onedrive.live.com) - Best cloud storage solution for Windows users.
- [pCloud](https://www.pcloud.com/) - A cloud storage solution with a strong focus on security.
- [Clipboard](https://getclipboard.app) - Easy-to-use local solution for saving files, folders, or text like a scratchpad.

### Note Management

- [Evernote](https://evernote.com/) - Evernote can basically become your second brain and remember everything for you.
- [Google Keep](https://www.google.com/keep/) - A nice and simple note management system tightly integrated with Google products.
- [Inkdrop](https://www.inkdrop.info/) - A cross-platform note taking application for Markdown lovers.
- [Joplin](https://joplinapp.org/) - A note taking and to-do application with synchronization capabilities.
- [Notion](https://www.notion.so/) - An all-in-one very customizable workspace for notes, tasks, wikis and lists.
- [Yana](https://yana.js.org) - Powerful note-taking app with nested documents, full-text search, rich-text editor, code snippet editor and more.
- [OneNote](https://www.onenote.com/) - Very good note management solution, but best for Windows users.
- [Preserver](https://github.com/hsbalar/preserver) - Notes organizer desktop application based on Electron.
- [Simplenote](https://simplenote.com/) - Light, clean, and free. Simplenote is now available for iOS, Android, Mac, Windows, Linux, and the web.
- [Standard Notes](https://standardnotes.org/) - A simple and private notes application.
- [WorkFlowy](https://workflowy.com/) - Outlining application for nested bulleted lists.

### Task Management

- [Airtable](https://airtable.com/) - Mix of spreadsheet and database to help organize work.
- [Amazing Marvin](https://www.amazingmarvin.com/) - Marvin incorporates principles from behavioral psychology to help beat procrastination, feel in control and finish todo list.
- [Any.do](https://www.any.do/) - Simple interface, packed with features, currently the favorite to-do list manager at [Lifehacker](https://lifehacker.com/5924093/five-best-to-do-list-managers).
- [GitHub Projects](https://github.com/features/project-management/) - A lesser known feature of GitHub, makes it easy to tie your project management process to your code.
- [Hitask](https://hitask.com) - Easy Project and Task Management for Teams.
- [KanbanFlow](https://kanbanflow.com) - Kanban method task board with Pomodoro technique.
- [Microsoft To Do](https://todo.microsoft.com/tasks/) - Microsoft cloud-based task management application based on Wunderlist technology.
- [OmniFocus](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnifocus) - A Getting Things Done based task manager for macOS and iOS.
- [Paymo](https://www.paymoapp.com/) - Keep your team aligned and engaged. Manage tasks, create team schedules, track work time, and bill your clients from the same platform.
- [Pomolectron](https://github.com/amitmerchant1990/pomolectron) - A pomodoro app for your menubar/tray.
- [Remember the Milk](https://www.rememberthemilk.com) - Great at managing tags for to-dos and location based tasks.
- [Taskade](https://taskade.com) - Simple and collaborative task lists for teams.
- [Taskwarrior](https://taskwarrior.org/) - An open source command line task manager. Flexible, fast, efficient, and unobtrusive.
- [Timely](https://memory.ai/timely) - Automatic time tracking software. Get a flawless digital record of all project and team time, all without the hassle of manual timers and note taking.
- [Timing](https://timingapp.com/) - Automatic time and productivity tracking for Mac. Helps you stay on track with your work and ensures no billable hours get lost if you are billing hourly.
- [Tinido](https://tinido.com/) - A beautiful and simple task management app that can also give you insights by showing your completed tasks in a contribution graph similar to the one you find on your GitHub profile.
- [Todo.txt](http://todotxt.com/) - Tired of having complicated apps to organize your tasks? Todo.txt is a technique that uses a single `.txt` file to help you get the job done.
- [Todoist](https://todoist.com/) - Powerful and cross-platform productivity tool.
- [Topydo](https://github.com/topydo/topydo) - A powerful todo list application using the todo.txt format, positioned between todo.txt CLI and Taskwarrior.
- [Trello](https://trello.com) - Kanban method task board.
- [Tweek](https://tweek.so) - Super Simple To Do list and Weekly Task Management.
- [VivifyScrum](https://www.vivifyscrum.com) - Agile project management app for teams that deliver. Customizable Scrum and Kanban boards.
- [Bordio](https://bordio.com/) - Daily planner for managing tasks and events on one board.
- [OpenProject](https://www.openproject.org/) - An on premise open source project management solution that comes with a free community version as well as an enterprise version.

### Habit Trackers

- [Emoji Log](https://emojilog.rosano.ca) -  Calm, emoji-based tracker for arbitrary things that doesn't use streaks.
- [Everyday](https://everyday.app/) - Form new habits by doing things every day.
- [Habitica](https://habitica.com) - Complete your real life daily goals in a role play game (previously called _HabitRPG_).
- [HabitBull](https://www.habitbull.com/) - Premium habit tracker.
- [Loop Habit Tracker](https://github.com/iSoron/uhabits) - An Android app for creating and maintaining good habits.
- [Waka Time](https://wakatime.com/) -  Open source plugin for knowing exactly how long you spend coding.
- [Conjure](https://conjure.so) - Habits, goals and time tracking platform with rules engine, data layer, API, dashboards and more (Web, Desktop, iOS, Android).

### Task Automation

- [AutoIt](https://www.autoitscript.com/) - Small tool for Windows to automate the Windows GUI, but it can also be used for other purposes.
- [Awesome AutoHotKey](https://github.com/ahkscript/awesome-AutoHotkey) - AutoHotKey is a free, open-source macro-creation and automation software for Windows that allows users to automate repetitive tasks.
- [IFTTT](https://ifttt.com) - Allows you to create chains of conditional statements (called _recipes_) between web services in order to make the web work for you and boost your productivity.
- [n8n](https://n8n.io) - Open-source workflow automation for connecting web services with an option to self-host.
- [Qbserve](https://qotoqot.com/qbserve/) - Mac time tracking automation: freelance project tracking, timesheets, invoicing & real-time productivity feedback.
- [Parabola](https://parabola.io) - Drag and drop tool to build custom reports, workflows, and integrations to automate your manual processes.
- [Tasker](https://tasker.dinglisch.net/) - Android application that can perform context sensitive custom tasks (_e.g._ automatically turn on wifi when you arrive home).
- [Zapier](https://zapier.com/) - Automation tool that allows you to connect hundreds of web services and create automations between the processes.

### Password Manager

- [Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com) - A free, trusted password manager that can store, sync, and generate passwords online or through native apps.
- [KeePass](https://keepass.info/) - A free, open source, light-weight password manager with auto-type, browser and plugin support.
- [LastPass](https://lastpass.com) - A freemium password manager that stores encrypted passwords online.
- [NordPass](https://nordpass.com/) - A freemium password manager created by the team from NordVPN. Store unlimited passwords and access them from anywhere with apps on all platforms.

### Knowledge Management

- [Obsidian.md](https://obsidian.md/) - A knowledge base tool that works on local Markdown files. It allows you to create links between different notes.
- [Scribe](https://scribehow.com/) - Automatically create step-by-step guides for any process. Simply hit “record” and Scribe will generate a detailed guide complete with screenshots based on your actions, ready to share with colleagues, customers, and friends.
- [Logseq](https://logseq.com/) - Logseq is a privacy-first, open-source knowledge base that works on top of local plain-text Markdown and Org-mode files. Use it to write, organize and share your thoughts, keep your to-do list, and build your own digital garden.

### Screen Capture

- [ShareX](https://getsharex.com/) - Screen capture, file sharing and productivity tool.
- [Replayable](https://replayable.io) - Rewind your screen. Playback and share exactly what happened with Replayable's desktop replay buffer.
- [CleanShot](https://cleanshot.com/) - A premium tool for screen capturing and recording on MacOS, with built-in annotation and text recognition.
